title: X-Men
categories:
- mutating
- mutex
- lock
- poco
- c++
- library
- development
- programming
- code
- scope
- const
- correct
- clean
- logic
- semantic
comments: true
date: 2015-08-10 00:32:31+00:00

## Introduction

This C++ language never ceases to amaze me .. Something new to learn everyday, and today I learned that mutating creatures aren't X-Men exclusive, C++ has those, too!! The first time I was `mutating` was actually in Swift. In Swift, struct functions are `const` by default, unless declared mutating. For example, the code below doesn't even compile:

```swift
struct X { 
    var y = 0 
    func mutateY() { 
        y += 1 
    } 
} 
```

Anyway, `mutating` was found in C++, and it seems to serve a different purpose!

## Injecting the Uranium

Let's kick off with some code!

```cpp
struct Nice {
   
   int sizeOfSharedContainer() const {
        Lock lock(_mutex);
        return _container.size();
   }

private:
    mutating Mutex _mutex;
    std::vector<int> _container;
};
```

Imagine the code Without the `mutating` keyword being there. Now, look at `sizeOfSharedContainer` implementation. You would have to assume that the `Lock` constructor takes a `const&` of `_mutex`, since the method is marked as `const`. Reality is, `Lock` needs to mutate `_mutex`, so other threads accessing `_mutex` know another thread is in the critical section! What now?!

The goal here is to still mark the method as `const`, since as far as the logical representation of `Nice` is concerned, the object didn't change after the execution of `sizeOfSharedContainer`!! We mutated a mutex to ensure thread safety for a short while, then revert it back.

Lazy developers would immediately remove `const` from the method. Fortunately, the developer's code I read wasn't one of the lazy peeps. Adding `mutating`, as you probably guessed by now, allows us to overrule the `const` restriction for certain data members.

## Why Haven't I Head of It?

I guess I've never come across it before because it is essentially a double edged sword, much like `const_cast`. People use it very carefully, and it probably only makes sense once the program start to become a bit complex. Some workarounds exist, so this feature isn't a dire need, so that's also another reason why only few professionals use it.

## Other Use Cases

Another helpful use case is lazy-loaded variables. Their getters should be marked as `const`, but on first access, we would have to mutate the cache variable to store the value once. Just make sure that cache variable is `private`!

A use case I actually thought of, and didn't nab from the Google, is memoization. It is actually derived from the lazy loading concept, lol.

## Conclusion

I need to write more interesting posts, with pics and stuff...
